hey guys Jay here in this methods lesson
we're going to look at probably the most
complicated TOEFL reading skill
it's called summarize information now
don't be intimidated because the
following tasks the the other reading
tasks in the TOEFL are a lot more
straightforward they're a lot not
necessarily simpler in terms of the
content but the question itself is more
easy to understand it's easier to
understand this one whoa it's a trick so
you need a method to do this one you
need to understand what this question is
asking you to do so that's what we're
going to do in this lesson first of all
what does this question look like well
this is the first thing you'll see
you'll see text here we have seven
paragraphs related to a single topic and
then this is what the actual question
looks like and it's a real doozy so what
do you have to do I'm gonna walk you
through it so there's an introductory
sentence for a brief summary of the
passage provided below what that means
is that passage of text we looked at
there's an introductory sentence written
here about it
it says scientists have linked the mass
extinction of the end of the Cretaceous
period with a meteorite impact on earth
okay that's important that's important
okay fine what's next complete this
summary by selecting three answer
choices that express the most important
ideas in the passage so here you can see
three dot points right we've got one two
three and down here we've got one two
three four five and six sentences so we
need to choose three of these sentences
here that add information to this based
on that text that we saw which was
actually in the text so some sentences
do not belong in the summary because
they express ideas that are not
presented in the passage or they are
minor ideas in the passage okay so it's
three of these six sentences you will
not choose
because they're not relevant or they
weren't mentioned or they're unimportant
okay fine
so then lastly you need to drag your
choices to the spaces where they belong
so you would just get your mouse on test
day and your drag the sentence here and
maybe this one here whoopsie that should
be the second spot and this one here
into the third spot so that's what you
have to do and it looks really
complicated so what's the method well
the method is this first of all you need
to read the passage and take notes I'm
going to show you what that will look
like you need to read the first sentence
of the summary of course you really need
to understand that you need to look at
your notes and eliminate any incorrect
sentences I'll show you how to do that
you need to choose the sentences that
match the main ideas in the passage and
then you drag and drop the correct
sentences in the correct order so let's
apply the method step 1
read the passage and take notes whoa how
do you do that because holy moly I know
there must be maybe 500 600 words here
so there's a simple way to do not
necessarily simple there's a simpler way
to do that and that's to read each
paragraph and write a mini summary okay
you want to write a mini summary of each
paragraph you don't want to summarize
the whole thing because it's just too
much so read this paragraph write a mini
summary of the main idea get the main
idea it may be one sentence from this
and do it again with this one and this
one and this one and this one and then
this one that's how you take notes okay
so you summarize each paragraph into a
single sentence that captures the main
idea fine so these are what my notes
will look like and maybe you'll add a
couple more so meteorite impacts hazard
to earth impacts can disturb environment
65 million years ago mass extinction
Cretaceous period dinosaurs disappeared
etc you can see the notes that I've
taken here and some of them I've maybe
those paragraphs had sort of two main
ideas so maybe from the first one I've
got two here that's possible as well
okay so I've got my notes what's step
two now I need to read the first
sentence of that summary which is here
which we read before and it's critical
that I understand that because this is
the first sentence of the paragraph it's
going to guide my choices for the
following sentences so what's the main
idea of the sentence that the impacts of
meteorites on earth caused mass
extinction okay that's the main idea of
that sentence step three
compare the answer options to the
information in your notes and eliminate
any incorrect sentences so here are my
notes on the left okay so I'm looking at
my notes here and on the right hand side
here are the six sentences presented to
me so what I need to do is I need to
eliminate ones that are not in my notes
remember that there were they were
possibly going to be some of these
sentences are going to be either
unimportant not mentioned or irrelevant
and I have to go through and eliminate
them according to my memory and
according to my notes so step four we
choose the sentences that match the main
ideas found in the paragraphs of the
passage so let's say I look at my notes
here and I decide that sentences 1 2 & 3
were not mentioned they were irrelevant
although unimportant and I decide that 4
5 & 6 match my notes so then step 5 I
drag and drop them in the correct order
so let's read this now so scientists
have linked the mass extinction of the
end of the Cretaceous period with a
meteorite impact on earth an iridium
enriched sediment layer and large impact
crater in the Yucatan provide evidence
that a large meteorite struck earth
about 65 million years ago large
meteorite impacts such as the one at the
end of the Cretaceous period can
seriously affect climate eeka lokka
ecological niches plants and animals
meteorite impacts can be advantageous
for some species which thrive and
disastrous for other species which
become extinct so in fact there's
actually a logical order for this
paragraph as well this
clearly the opening sentence this
sentence then follows this follows that
sentence and then finally we've got the
fourth sentence here and again we we
decided that these sentences weren't
relevant or important so that's also an
added little bit of complexity there
that you need to put them in the correct
order fine now it's your turn I want you
to read this and I want you to take
notes I'm going to give you say 60
seconds maybe a little bit longer
just let me interrupt you there the most
critical thing that you can do here or
certainly one of the most critical
things is to really understand the text
that's in front of you if you
misunderstand it if you misinterpret it
and you write down the wrong note well
that's going to drastically affect your
choice of the sentences in the next
steps okay so I want you to read this
again and I want you to make sure you
really understand this this text
okay let's move on I want you to read
this sentence here a recent study shows
how smart phones can be used to make
movies of living cells without the need
for expensive equipment fine
we've understood that now I want you to
read these sentences down here the six
sentences let me just move this and I
want you to eliminate ones that were not
mentioned in the text and are not
mentioned in your notes you can also use
your memory to help you
okay let's have a look at the answers so
here we go here let's read this and see
if you got the same thing so a recent
study shows how smartphones can be used
to make movies of living cells without
the need for expensive equipment live
imaging is a very important and
expensive undertaking used to research
how different medicine affects living
cells during the study traditional
microscopes for this research were
replaced with some everyday electronics
and smartphones resulting quality cell
culture conditions and top quality
imaging the study makes it possible for
laboratories around the world to do the
same thing now some of the things we
could have eliminated were well this one
we use differently this one that the
microscopes are no longer sustainable it
didn't say that
yes live imaging is very important
inexpensive microscopes used in current
hospitals and universities are not as
efficient it didn't say that during the
study traditional microscopes use of
this research were replaced with some
everyday electronics no it didn't say
that actually yes it did sorry
researchers with minimal funding will be
able to replace their current equipment
with smartphones well it didn't say that
it certainly didn't say replace it said
sort of amend or update or improve
didn't it cool so this is how we can
look at it here we have the correct
sentences in the box we have the
eliminated sentences and we have the
ones that match the information in the
passage thanks very much for watching I
hope that was helpful and again that is
the most complicated of the TOEFL
reading question types the others are a
lot more straightforward so do watch
those but make sure you do the practice
questions so you really get a feel for
how to do this particular task as it is
tricky thanks for watching